Last Act of the Chronarch: The party starts in Spellhaven. The city, and much of the world are in the middle of an apocalyptic cataclysm. Fires roar and choke the sky with smoke. Monstrous aberrations ravage the once beautiful city, destroying all they can find. The party attempts to survive and escape. All hope seems lost however as they slowly get surrounded by enemies. A portal suddenly opens up and a mysterious mage beckons them in. The Chronarch is dying and informs the party that they must travel back in time to stop this catastrophe. He tells them to look for a mage named Tanaeus Lysander, who is the one who summons the apocalypse. He then leaves them with the cryptic prophecy: "When the resurgent goddess dons her verdant veil, a hand once scorned convenes in solemnity to avenge the transgressions of the past. Seek the seal from creation, for only in the unbinding of its secrets does the future's salvation await, hidden in the hour when memory meets oblivion."

For most of the story, it seems as if the other mage is the bad guy who is going to summon the apocalypse. He is also searching for the Void Seal, which is the only thing that can stop the ritual. He only mentions that he is searching for it because he needs it for something big that is happening soon. Once the party gets powerful enough to actually fight him, at some point he pleads with them not to kill him. Somehow it is figured out that he and the party want the same thing. It turns out that the Chronarch is actually the one who summoned the apocalypse and he was dying in the beginning because Tanaeus was about to kill him and stop the apocalypse. At this point the party can either spare him and fight the Chronarch, or kill him if they don't believe him. Either way, they must then confront the Chronarch during the Lunar Amplification, when an Aurora-like body encompasses the moon and amplifies all magical summoning. If Tanaeus is dead, the Chronarch takes the Void Seal and attempts to destroy it, making it impossible to stop the ritual.

Important Aspects:
Void Seal - An artifact said to have been created from the void that existed before the universe's creation. It has powerful antimagic properties, so powerful that if used in the correct way, it could disable the entire Weave and potentially even destroy the underlying well of power.

Chronarch - Powerful wizard that can manipulate time. Betrays the party to summon the apocalypse

Chronarch Background: Real name: Ormyn Kaleth
He was a simple artisan living in a small town in the Atrisean Dynasty. He had a wife and kids. In 2491 PS, the Atrisean Dynasty was at war with Valdens over the crossing at Athelon. In 2492 PS, the Chronarch's village was attacked by a Valdensian raiding party. He wasn't there, because he was away serving in the Atrisean Military. When he came back and found his town destroyed and his family murdered, he was devastated. He left for Spellhaven, dedicating his life to studying Chronomancy so that he could go back and see his family again. Eventually he became powerful enough to go back in time to visit them. When he went back, he was appalled by what he saw. He saw the devastation that magic had unleashed on the town and how easily the mages killed with it. The Chronarch swore vengeance on magic in all of its forms. Even though he is a mage himself, he sees it as a necessary evil that would be reverted at the end of his plan. His master plan is to bring about an apocalypse that would destroy all knowledge of the arcane and kill all spellcasters, essentially plunging Chandaria into a new dark age.

Act 1: The party wakes up in Lanbruk, which is a village near Welbenwallow in No'zaral. The region is experiencing turmoil because a large force supposedly from Valdens is currently occupying the region allegedly on the business of researching the local flora and fauna. People are skeptical about the terms of this agreement, but the No'zaral government isn't doing anything about it.

The forces are putting a lot of pressure on the inhabitants of the region because they take many resources by force to fuel their deforestation machine.

The group is searching for Elderbark trees to chop them down and research/harvest the energy from them. They were originally hired by Tanaeus to alert him of the location of the Elderbark trees so he could research them and try to find the Void Seal and stop the Chronarch. However, the Chronarch secretly replaced the top leaders of the group, and told them to deforest the trees and only tell him about the trees.

Act 2: After defeating the leader of the deforestation company, the party finds a clue to Tanaeus Lysander's motivation and location. In Spellhaven, they can meet up with the Chronarch. At the same time, Tanaeus believes that they killed his research expedition and that they are helping the Chronarch, so he sends assassins to kill them. A decent part of this arc is the party being hunted by assassins while trying to find out more about the Void Seal and its location. The second half of this Act is the party starting to search for the void seal on the Material Plane.

Act 3: The party begins travelling extraplanar to find the Void Seal. Eventually they encounter Tanaeus in the flesh and fight him. If defeated, he begs for mercy and tries to tell the party what's really going on with the Chronarch. With the Void Seal in their possession, they can either choose to spare Tanaeus and work with him against the Chronarch, or kill him and trust the Chronarch. Either way the Chronarch does end up betraying them, and they must kill him to stop the ritual.

