Current Day: 18th of Calo, 2506 PS

The party is left free to travel to Rango's village at their own time. The Chronarch gives them his pass to use the Arcane Byways to head north to Divi and cross the Londrias River into the Atrisean Dynasty.

In Divi, at the Londrias Crossing, the party must wait in a long line to board a ferry to cross the river. The ferries are owned independently by a group known as the Ferrymen. They were created long ago to avoid contention between Valdens and the Dynasty on ownership of the ferries themselves. However, each side of the crossing has a customs agency that will attempt to make things as hard as possible for travelers from the opposing nation.

While in the line for the ferries, a half-elf man approaches the party holding a wrapped up baby. His name is Marcus and he begs the party to take his baby Sali across the river to her mother, Lira (Elf, long light blond hair, bright green eyes). Marcus explains that he is an alchemist who was living in Spellhaven for the past few years with his family. However, his business recently fell on hard times because his wife had to move back to the Dynasty to deal with a family funeral. Now, he is trying to move back to be with his wife but is unable to cross because the Valdensian river guards saw his alchemical supplies and confiscated them claiming them to be contraband, and refused to let him cross on a ferry. He has no money and no place to stay but needs to stay behind to try to get back some of his supplies. He just wants his daughter to be safe with her mother over in Athalon.

The river guards inspect the party's packs and question them about their reasons for crossing. Around them, other Atrisean people are being turned away for ridiculous reasons.

It takes about 3 hours for a ferry to cross the Londrias. Disembarking from the ferry is much easier than getting on. Everyone rushes to get off as quickly as possible. Lira is waiting nearby the docks anxiously waiting, she thanks them so much for bringing her baby and asks what is happening with Marcus.

Athalon is a city of traders. From here, merchants send goods across into Valdens, around into Falstor, and up the Twin Straits to the Larenthian Alliance. The city is a maze of crisscrossing streets that have hundreds of wagons and caravans driving across at all times. Since the city's road network is very established already, the city doesn't expand outward, but rather upward. Much of the city is made of 10 to 12 story buildings made of stone and reinforced with rare metals. Athalon serves as the economic center of the dynasty. There are a wide mix of people hustling and bustling along the city streets. Anyone from business suits to adventurers traveling around.

Traveling further north from Athalon, the party passes into a thick forest with tall, skinny trees