**Ysaldan Vhal's Magnum Opus**
In her note from the tower, Vhal mentions that her Magnum Opus is hidden within the Westerwood. This Magnum Opus is the Void Seal. Using the ancient magic of the Elderbark trees, she traveled to the edge of the universe and collected some of the Void fragments from there and crafted them into the Void Seal. She created this artifact at the end of the Arcane Resurgence as she realized the troubles that magic was bringing into the world.

However, sometime during the Age of Peace, local explorers stumbled upon Vhal's laboratory and alerted higher authorities, who took the Void Seal and separated it into pieces and sent these pieces far away from each other. The power of the Void Seal couldn't be completely destroyed however, and even the pieces on their own hold great power. Some of the pieces are on Chandaria while others were sent to other planes. They have since changed hands from the original beings that held them, but they can be tracked down.

**Aftermath of the investigation**
5 days have past since last session. In that time, Seris's trial has concluded and the sentencing happens in the Perpetual Plaza. Overseer Oswald carries out the sentencing: "Seris Durn, you have been found guilty of Conspiracy to Murder, Bribery, Fraud, and Treason of the highest order. You are hereby stripped of your position on the Welbenwallow Council and are banished from the Free Republic of No'zaral. This sentence is effective immediately." Seris is also branded with the mark of treason. The party is invited up on stage and are awarded with Bronze Heart awards, recognizing their service to the province.

Also in the 5 days, a memorial is held for Greta Stonechild. Because of what happened to her and the information that was uncovered, the council has rallied behind her and is getting ready to vote to end the contract with Spellhaven. Meriel knows that this is very likely to pass because of the outing of Seris.

Meanwhile, Esther hypothesizes that with the crackdown happening on the Spellhaven deal, Elminster has been forced to stop his plans for a time. However, now that word of the deal ending has been surfacing, he is likely to make a move soon. 
