The capital city of Rodigia. It sits atop Mount Thogrin, and is ruled by the Mountain King Strullar Anling. The top of Mount Thogrin itself has multiple peaks, all of which make up the actual city of Rhugnurt. There are 5 main peaks, and they are all connected with massive bridges made of iron chains and stone slabs. These bridges have smaller wooden rope bridges connected to the sides of them for normal-sized creatures to use. The ropes on these bridges seems to be a sort of vine that has a stone-like appearance.
## Government
Rhugnurt is the home of the Mountain King, the ruler of Rodigia. From the High Hall atop Stronmar Peak, the Mountain King and his Storm Clan lord over the Kingdom. Almost all of the members of the King's Council, the Storm Clan, are Storm Giants. Furthermore, every Mountain King in the history of Rodigia has been a Storm Giant since they are the highest in the [[Ordning]].
## Culture
All along the peaks of Rhugnurt, especially the smaller ones, there are wide stone terraces that grow different kinds of lichen, moss, and other hardy plants that are able to grow in the cold, stony environment. Many of the farmers that work on these terrace farms are Hill Giants, since crop farming is seen as a lesser occupation. It is reserved for those at the bottom of the Ordning.
### Fauna
Much like its Giantkind inhabitants, the fauna of Rhugnurt and Rodigia as a whole are larger than those from the rest of Chandaria.

One of the main animal means of transportation in Rhugnurt is via Monties. These are large, furry, mammoth-like creatures that have adapted to life in the steep mountainous terrain. They have the movement capability of mountain goats, but a much greater carrying capacity. To outsiders it can be very strange at first to see these massive creatures climbing near-vertical cliff faces around Rhugnurt, but Monties have been domesticated for millennia and are a staple of Giant society.

While the Monties are the go-to land mounts, the skies are ruled by Gormethi (more commonly called Drifters or Skycows). These are massive mammals similar to whales that have an innate flying ability. While they have extra large flippers, these are not the main source of their flight. It is unclear exactly what it is that grants them flight, but it seems that they are able to naturally control their buoyancy. Gormethi are able to carry even more than Monties and do so through the air. However, they require a lot of food to keep healthy, and have a very long growth period to adulthood. With all this, they are a valuable creature to own.

There are multiple sky docks around Rhugnurt that hold Gormethi. 