Population: 93,460 (80% dwarves, 10% human, 5% drow, 5% other races)

Government: Right to rule in Essaheim is based on two main ideas: material wealth and blood relation. Clans have been known to run the city for over a hundred years at a time. The transitions of power between clans is almost always hostile, and often violent. The current ruling clan is the Fireforge clan, with the head of the city being Bergmann Dworic. The title of Bergmann (meaning miner) is the highest in the court of Essaheim. The Bergmann has a council of Stadras composed of other Fireforge members and also other members of the wealthy elite that live on The Isles.

Defense: Essaheim benefits from a naturally defensible position. There is one entrance into the city, through the Tormor Gate. The Tormor Gate is a large, hundred foot tall adamantine door that is guarded by siege weapons and archers on the walls, as well as a medium sized garrison of Watchmen on the ground. The actual city has a strong Watchmen presence, with less in the Isles and Upper Echelons, and more in the Sprawl. The main barracks of the Watchmen is at the Crown's Barracks in the Isles. The Burgess Castle employs its own personal staff of guards.

Commerce: Essaheim's main export is minerals and gems from the mines, as well as the accompanying metal goods that are made from the mined metal. The great Forges of Essaheim are known for being a large producer of steel and brass, as well as occasionally striking a large vein of adamantium. All manner of metal goods can be bought in the Artisan District and the Stallyard of the Upper Echelons. Essaheim imports a lot of its food since it is hard to grow underground. One of the Isles has a beam of sunlight shining on it through the ceiling of the cavern. This Isle is known as the Inselhof and is where the majority of the inhabitants of the Isles get their food. The Galastari Academy is also rumored to have its own food production through magical means, but no one on the outside knows. Common and uncommon magic items can be bought in the Artisan District of the Upper Echelons. They are often created by former members of the Galastari Academy.

Organizations: The Galastari Academy is the largest independent organization in the city. It is the home of all things Abjuration-related. It is also the keeper of all knowledge in the city. Because of this, certain pieces of knowledge are often kept from the public, as the Galastari feel it doesn't belong in their hands. The Miner's Guild is also very important in the city. The head of the Miner's Guild is Erias Steelfist who oversees all mining operations. The Miner's Guild works very closely with the Smelter's Guild, which are two different groups. The Smelter's guild oversees the Great Forges, and controls all production and outgoing commodities. The Order of the Cerulean Owl is a secret organization within the city that seeks truth in all aspects of life. They are ardently against the Galastari Academy's gatekeeping of knowledge. The order is sometimes called 'The Suits' due to the members often sporting very dapper suits. Members will sometimes refer to other members as 'Owls'. Members of the order come from all societal classes, which gives them a huge insight into all the parts of Essaheim. The Order of the Cerulean Owl headquarters are in the Upper Echelons at the Enlightened Owl library.

Essaheim was founded and constructed in the fallout of the [Great Dissension](The%20Great%20Dissension.md). Dwarves who fought alongside [[Reicha]] retreated into the mountain to continue their search for wealth and treasure. Parts of the caverns of Essaheim date back to the pre-dissension age. Extremely old ruins can be found here and it is even possible to take tours of certain pre-dissension caverns. The dwarves are fairly accepting of all gods but [[Reicha]] is the only deity with public shrines, since the majority of Essaheim worships [[Reicha]] in some sense. Essaheim sits as the major manufacturer of smithy goods and exporter of minerals in Southeast Chandaria, supplying both [Falstor](The%20Kingdom%20of%20Falstor.md) to the south and Rodigia to the north of the Hawgnoze mountains. Since Essaheim has such a large population, it is host to all manners of social classes. Among the trade hubs of the cities is an extensive mingling of ideas. However, due to the stubbornness of Dwarves, most permanent residents of Essaheim rarely differ in moral code and beliefs.

The majority of the lower class in the Sprawl is made up of miners, fishermen, and other general laborers. In the bottom of the main cavern of Essaheim by the Sprawl is an extensive river network that weaves around all of the Isles. These rivers that sit at the bottom level of the Sprawl are used mainly for fishing, feeding the people of the Sprawl, as well as being used for transportation between major parts of the Sprawl. The middle class inhabits the Upper Echelons. While it is not against any rules for residents of the Sprawl to visit the Upper Echelons, there is a fee for people that don't live or work in the Upper Echelons to use the Grand Lift to get up to the Upper Echelons. The Upper Echelons is mostly made up of soldiers, artisans, and merchants, as well as the members of the Galastari Academy. Middle class folks that live in the Upper Echelons are free to travel between there and the Sprawl, but still not allowed to visit the Isles except on invitation. The residents of the Isles are the elite class. They are comprised of guild masters, merchant lords, and minor political figures, as well as the farmers that live on the Inselhof. Residents of the Isles are allowed to travel anywhere within Essaheim, including the public areas of the Burgess Castle (on account of the fact that the majority of the elite class know someone within the castle).

### Government
Bergmann Dworic is the highest official in the government. He deals with high-level diplomatic issues and decisions that affect all of Essaheim. Dworic is actually a fairly well-liked leader. He is known as an advocate for the middle class and supports the city's artisans fervently. Some people don't like Dworic because they think he doesn't care for the lower class and sometimes makes decisions that are super biased toward the elite class. However, this is not Dworic's fault. The Stadras are heavily paid off by the elite class, so they advise the king into unknowingly making decisions that only benefit the elite class. The Stadras carry out their conspiracy through the Supreme Richter Nora Hammerstone. The Supreme Richter is the highest judge in the city, and so has the final say on all law matters. The Cerulean Owls have some leads into this conspiracy but haven't fully uncovered it yet. The Supreme Richter works closely with the Watchmaster Dain Aranore, who is the leader of the Watchmen. The Watchmaster is not a part of the conspiracy and is simply following orders from the Supreme Richter.

Notable Buildings

Upper Echelons:

Artisans District:

The Eversharp Anvil – Blacksmith owned by Gilmur Eversharp. He will make whatever basic metal items the group wants commissioned. A small item costs 3 gp, a medium item costs 10 gp, and a large metal item costs 30 gp. If the party wants armor or weapons, they can commission him to make one which will take a while, or they can go to an armorer or weaponsmith in the Stallyard to see what's already been made. Gilmur's apprentice is his son Gilthor.

Hammer & Brawn – Blacksmith owned by Olric Stoutleg. He will also make basic metal items commissioned by the party. A small item costs 5 gp, a medium item costs 15 gp, and a large metal item costs 35 gp. He also has weapons and armor for sale in the Stallyard. Olric has no apprentice and does all the work himself.

Beloril's Bows – Bowyer owned by Beloril Orcbane. He makes various bows and crossbows. All prices follow the player's handbook prices. His goods are also for sale at the weapons shop in the Stallyard. Beloril offers to take any magical woods that the players have and turn them into magical bows.

The Enlightened Owl – Library acting as a secret headquarters for the Order of the Cerulean Owl. The head librarian is a human man named Bredon Donall. He has reddish brown middle length hair parted to one side with a very neatly trimmed beard and spectacles. He's dressed in a very respectable suit.

Shanek's Shrooms - Shanek Grassfoot comes from a long line of mushroom farmers. Mushroom cultivation has never really taken off in Essaheim, but Shanek is adamant that it is the next big thing. He is a very excitable businessman who is always excited about people taking an interest in his mushrooms. He'll sell people a sample of his Gloomglow mushrooms.

Shrine to Reicha – A small shrine to the Goddess Reicha–. small shrine to the Goddess Reicha. It is built into the side of the stalactite, with the statue carved out of the stone. Flowers, candles, and gold coins lay around the statue.