ADH-1263211370: The Spear of the Blood Chief
Report last updated by: Vestis Ludmilla Crosnel
Artifact Name: Spear of the Blood Chief

Description: Handle appears to be entirely fabricated of an unknown deep black metal that remains cold to the touch despite all efforts to warm it. Detailing around the handle resembles blood droplets that trickle up towards the head. The blade is made from a deep red alloy that is likely composed of some amount of adamantine.

It is generally agreed upon by the authoring scholars of this document that the Spear of the Blood Chief was forged during the Great Dissension. It was first mentioned in A Discussion of Morality in the Great Dissension by the mage Ageor, apprentice to Strixius. Following this thread, we found more information about its fabrication by Archmage Usigaell in later works by Ageor and Lakkernos the Ashbringer. These works helped our Quaesitors to locate the Spear amongst the infinite layers of the Abyss. It was determined to be in the jungles of the Gaping Maw. A Vestis was sent to accompany the party of Quaesitors in the case that complete extraction of the artifact was impossible, and since the Spear's exact location was still unknown.

After a considerable amount of fighting and investigating in the Gaping Maw, we eventually tracked down the Spear. We determined that it was in the possession of a Pact Breaker by the name of Berzir. Berzir was keeping the Spear in his Palace of Betrayal, and we set out to infiltrate it.

We reached the Spear in Berzir's vault, where the Vestis was able to divine the artifact's history. As soon as the ritual was complete, the party was attacked by Berzir. Berzir fought ferociously, and forced the party to retreat after a close-fought battle. We fled back to Spellhaven with the artifact's history.

The following is an account of the artifact's history:
Berzir rose to prominence during the Second Blood War, where he ascended to the rank of General under Asmodeus, Lord of the Hells. Berzir excelled at killing demons. This made him a prime target for The Blood Chief. In a rather uncharacteristic display of cunning, the Blood Chief convinced many of Asmodeus's top soldiers to turn against the Lord of the Hells. Berzir was one such pact breaker, drawn by the offer of unlimited destructive power under The Blood Chief.

The Blood Chief granted Berzir a palace in the Abyss, as he did for most of the prominent pact breakers. Berzir adorned his palace to befit the cruelty of the Abyss. He thrived amongst the chaos of the Gaping Maw for many centuries.

Following the Scourge, the Demon Prince Demogorgon enlisted Berzir to once again betray those above him. The Demon Prince had convinced Berzir to aid in one of the many well-documented post-Scourge rebellions. During the rebellion, Demogorgon gained possession of the weapon known as the Spear of the Blood Chief. He gifted it to Berzir as a reward for his service as the pact breaker returned to his palace, which was now becoming known as the Palace of Betrayal. As far as the Assembly is aware, Berzir is still in possession of the Spear of the Blood Chief.

Addendum I: It should be noted that in attempting to learn the lore of this artifact, some of the Vestises have gone mad. Caution advised for future Vestises. However, results are anomalous and irreproducible. More research is needed to determine the root cause of this madness.

Addendum II: After subsequent expeditions to attempt to retrieve the spear, the Assembly has deemed it irretrievable. Berzir has only further reinforced his palace to protect against intrusions. Any future attempts to retrieve the artifact should be VERY careful for traps.

Addendum III: As of version 7, the Spear is still in the Palace of Betrayal.

NOTES:
Spellhaven Naming Convention:
- ADH: Stands for Artifact Description & History
- 1263: First four numbers are the year when the artifact was first discovered
- 2113: Second four numbers are the last year the account was updated
- 7: Next number is the number of revisions or additions that have been made to this document
- 0: Final number indicates whether the Assembly has possession of the item (0 for no, 1 for yes)

Lakkernos the Ashbringer: Red Dragon who was alive during the Dissension.

Positions in the Assembly:
Vestis - Researcher
Quaesitor - "Seeker". Actually does the adventuring to collect artifacts