Day 1: I have begun my research into the creation of an extradimensional rift. I intend to use this gate to expand the reach of the Anteity League. My initial hypothesis is that by following the striations of the Interplanar Fabric, I can connect two points in space. My current speculations are that this will only connect points on the same plane. This would prove to be a powerful incantation, but not to the degree which is needed to truly challenge the Gods. More research and experimentation will need to be performed. I will continue to document my progress.

Day 5: My initial hypothesis proved to be mostly correct. By modifying the conjuration subject of a simple teleportation spell I was able to create a portal of sorts from one point in space to another on our plane. This will prove to be a useful incantation, but it is not what the Antiety League needs right now. I have been reading about areas in the world where the border between planes is weak, and I plan to journey to one of these locales soon. The only theory I have right now is that by casting my current spell at this planar border, I may be able to extend the conjuration into the other plane.

Day 8: Today I begin my journey towards the Rumbling Gorge. They say this crack in the land represents a crack in the Multiverse. I will see if this is true. I expect the journey to take about a week. I will keep adding in my journal. Perhaps I will think up a new theory on my journey.

Day 17: I arrived at the Rumbling Gorge today after stopping a few times on the journey. Initial tests are not living up to what I had hoped to achieve by experimenting in this location. There are certain spots where one can almost feel the stretching of the Interplanar Fabric and the thin border between the planes here. Despite this, I am still not able to extend my portal into the other plane. Clearly I need to change my methods, but I cannot for the life of me figure out what to change.

Day 20: Today near my camp I witnessed a hawk carry a tortoise up into the air and drop it to crack its shell open to get to the inside. This gave me a sudden epiphany. The hawk, rather than precisely attacking the tortoise at the seams, instead opts to use brute force to break through the tortoises defenses. Perhaps I can do much the same. As opposed to trying to attack the Interplanar Fabric at its weak points, what if I instead tried to use a large amount of arcane power to essentially tear through the Fabric. I will give this a try.

Day 22: My new experiments have been a great success. After a short meditation I find myself able to generate enough arcane energy to create minute tears in the Interplanar Fabric. I can feel the boundary breaking, but I need to get better at focusing the power to a concentrated point. I feel this will be the key to success.

Day 25: I have done it! By using a stronger casting focus I was able to concentrate the arcane energy enough to create a temporary rift in the Interplanar Fabric. I haven't journeyed through yet but I caught a glimpse of what my prior research leads me to believe was the City of Brass on the Elemental Plane of Fire. I am ecstatic that this new approach worked flawlessly. My next point of research is to figure out how to change which plane the rift opens up to.