By: Esemaryl Alvaris (996 PS)

When I first arrived in Elysium, I promised myself that I would never return to the Material Plane. After the Scourge, I was so fed up with the drama of mortals. I came here to forget all of the violence that accompanies mortal folly. Trust me, as Usigaell's apprentice I saw more than enough violence. Despite renouncing everything on the Material Plane, I have gotten my share of news from the Material Plane from all of the dead heroes who have ended up here on Thalasia. Here is a compendium of some of the greatest heroes I have met here.

Pylaxes
Pylaxes was the first hero that I met here in Thalasia. I met him when I arrived and was on my way to the island that Cielia had granted me. My ship was set upon by a troop of rogue Sahuagins. As they boarded and began ransacking the ship, Pylaxes arrived flanked by two Solars, and they quickly dispatched the invaders. Me and Pylaxes exchanged introductions. He was very intrigued to be meeting a mortal in Elysium, and promised to be there to protect me whenever I needed it. We bonded over the fact that I had fought alongside his children, the Great Serpents, in my service of Gruumsh during the Great Dissension.

I have met Pylaxes a few other times after that. Each time I learned a bit more about his life when he was alive. He was born in Osmirith. I regrettably had to inform him that the city had been devastated during the war. This saddened him and he told me a story about the first time he protected his city of Osmirith. A Chimera had been terrorizing the city and the surrounding Westerwood and was living in a cave on Mount Tayeche. He journeyed for four days up to the peak of the mountain where he waited for the Chimera to go to sleep and he slew it with nothing more than a shortsword and a wooden shield. According to Pylaxes, after slaying the Chimera, the magical creatures of the Westerwood helped him on his future endeavors as a reward for liberating them.

Pylaxes performed many more heroic deeds, including repelling an entire invasion more or less singlehandedly. But nothing tops the story that he told me when I traveled to his island to help him set up some glyphs of warding around his manor. He told me of a time when he teamed up with his strongest companions to slay a blue dragon that was living on the western coast of Chandaria. The dragon, Tienralt, was collecting tithes from Osmirith and Pylos which was limiting the growth of the towns.

Pylaxes was regretful when he told this next part. He and his party charged headstrong into Tienralt's lair to fight. His warrior friend Oskar was killed from one of Tienralt's lightning bolts. His sorcerer friend Leleth was split in half by the dragon's claws and another warrior, Bael, was clubbed to death by the dragon's tail. Pylaxes grew enraged and climbed up the wing of the dragon when it landed. Tienralt raised his wing to fly and Pylaxes leaped off the wing, driving his sword into the base of Tienralt's skull, killing it.

The next part of the story is the most absurd, and Pylaxes smiled fondly as he told it. Tiamat was angered by the death of Tienralt, and she herself traveled to Pylos to confront Pylaxes. She was fully bent on killing him, but somehow, Pylaxes was able to calm her and eventually seduce her. She eventually birthed the Great Serpents, demigods in their own right because of their father Pylaxes' mortality.

Thariel Sylvarin
I met Thariel while we were both sailing near the Golden Hearth. We boarded to talk with the new ship and I immediately recognized that Thariel was special. She carried an intricate golden bow strung over her shoulder. I asked her about it and she told me that it was a gift from Cielia because of the work that she did when she was alive. She told me that she was a ranger during a time which she called the Age of Dragons and that she brought about a new age. I agreed with Thariel that we would meet again on my island and share stories over a nice feast.

We met on my island and I had my constructs prepare a feast for us. We exchanged our heroic tales. I must confide that Thariel's individual feats triumph my own without doubt. Thariel was born in the elven city of Ith Alora (I laugh now as I compile these stories because it seems that all great heroes are born in the Westerwood). She was always very connected with nature and soon become a ranger of the Silver Hollow Order. Her journey began while she was taking contracts in Pylith. The town was having trouble with a nearby Hobgoblin Warlord named Drok Bonecrush (a pseudonym surely). One day while she was in the town, the goblin horde attacked and Thariel joined with a few of the other townsfolk to repel the attack.

The small group managed to defeat enough goblins to route the rest of the skirmishing force, but they knew that the raids would only worsen because of this insurrection. They decided to take the fight to Drok, liberating towns under his iron rule as they trekked across the western coast of Chandaria. By the time they reached Drok's encampment, they had collected enough adventurers in their party that Drok stood no chance. This monumental victory inspired the group, and they decided to continue liberating Chandaria in hopes of eventually freeing the entire continent from the rule of Thalroth the Storm Wyrm, who had controlled the entire continent for nearly 300 years at that point. At this point our conversation took a long tangent as I asked her about Thalroth and what exactly the "Age of Dragons" was. I will write another book on that because it deserves its own volume.

It was along this first journey that she met good old Thenaes, one of my old apprentices, though she knew him as Thenaes of Monfort. It saddened me that according to Thariel, Thenaes had all but renounced his evocation days. However, he fell into old habits as they continued to fight. That means I must have taught him well then. Regardless, it made me very happy to know that Thenaes did well for himself after he left my tutelage.

Towns and cities across Chandaria were ruled by all manner of monsters: aberrations, fiends, and other beasts. They fought mind flayers, devils, demons, even a Beholder. Eventually they liberated enough of Chandaria that they were able to provoke Thalroth into a battle on their terms. They set up adequate defenses and dug in. As Thariel tells it, she loosed the final arrow from her bow. A lightning bolt from Theanaes had chipped a few scales off the front of Thalroth's neck. Thariel's arrow twisted and arced through the air and struck the weak spot, piercing through the dragon's entire neck and blowing out the other side accompanied by a mass of viscera.

With Thalroth dead and a good region of Chandaria liberated, the subjugated towns found the courage to rebel against their overlords. Chandaria would soon become a free continent once again. Thariel would retire from adventuring after this and spend the rest of her days sequestered deep in the Westerwood.

The embers were dying in the fire and the room growing dark as she finished her story. I offered a room to her since it was late but she insisted on traveling back to her own island, promising that her bow would guide her.

Ilothar Ilbrie
I've only recently met Ilothar, but his tale was simply too incredible to not include in this compendium. He arrived in Elysium only a few years ago, which has made him my premium source of news from the Material Plane. I love learning the histories of the souls that end up here in Thalasia because they are always fantastically entertaining. I knew Ilothar's story would be good because when he arrived, the Golden Hearth was so alight with celebration that I'm sure it was visible from every corner of Thalasia. Seeing this, I had to travel to the Golden Hearth to see what the commotion was about.

I arrived to the Golden Hearth to find a celebration for a newly arrived hero. I could tell just by looking at him that he was a wizard. This surprised me. Wizards are hard to come by here in Elysium. The gods rightfully hold a bit of a grudge against them after the Scourge. That meant that this one had to be truly great. Eventually at some point throughout the night I got some time with the mage to talk about his story. He introduced himself as Ilothar Ilbrie, a wizard from a city called Spellhaven. I was unfamiliar with it and kindly asked him for a bit of context.

As he described the city, I couldn't help but let my mind wander, daydreaming about a city where the arcane can thrive unfettered by autocrats and gods. He explained how it was built at the height of the Arcane Resurgence. I was loosely familiar with the time period and the origin of the city made sense in that paradigm. He then explained how the Kainomancers had pushed the boundaries of planar travel too far and had angered an interplanar force, the Cosmic Imperium. He described how on one night, rifts opened across the night sky and armies from the Astral Plane flooded Argena. Ilothar was in Spellhaven at the time studying abjuration at the university. All of the mages from the university were mobilized to aid in the defense of the city. Ilothar took pride in the fact that he was a part of the defense, since according to him, Spellhaven was one of the only cities in Chandaria to survive the initial attacks. As time went on, the populace realized that since the initial rifts opened, Argena was in a state of perpetual night. Mages across the world helmed research into reversing the effect, but to no avail.

Years of perpetual darkness passed and the Cosmic Imperium only grew stronger. The wizards of Spellhaven grew desperate, and devised an equally desperate plan to turn the tide of the war. Ilothar had risen in the ranks over the past years, and was put on a special team of mages. He showed his incredulity even while telling the story, but the team's mission was to resurrect Naivara in hopes of her being able to reverse the eternal night and help repel the invaders. The hard part was that Naivara's soul was thought to be in the outer reaches of the Astral Plane. They would have to go deep behind enemy lines.

Ilothar described the stress of traveling through the Astral Plane behind enemy lines for what felt like months. Eventually they located Naivara's soul and began the ritual to resurrect her. She appeared to them in her pure form and agreed to lift the eternal night, and bestowed upon an artifact known as the Aegis of the Veil, which had the power to seal planar rifts. That was the most she could do though. I'm sure this was because of the Abdication Accords. With the night lifted, the resistance armies of the Material Plane were able to start making progress towards expelling the invaders.

Ilothar returned to Spellhaven and spent the next few years coordinating the resistance. He gave the Aegis to his most trusted companions to take around Argena and seal the Imperium's rifts. Eventually they were able to push the invaders back all the way back to one final rift. It was known as Limmedorn's Rift and was the largest rift and the Imperium's main supply line. Limmedorn's Rift was in the sky above Ith Alora, and Ilothar traveled there himself to carry out the most crucial task in the battle. He stayed back while the resistance armies fought on the ground for the city itself. Once they controlled the city, Ilothar and other soldiers took to the sky to fight the rest of the Imperium forces. Ilothar's task was to carry the Aegis of the Veil to the rift and seal it once and for all.

He described the horror of watching his friends die around him, protecting him as he flew towards the rift. Ilothar reached the rift and began the ritual. The next part he told very solemnly and was tearing up slightly. He said that the ritual must have succeeded, because the last thing he remembers was completing the ritual and a bright flash of light. I told him that it must have worked, since he got sent to Elysium.

These are only a few of the many stories I've collected from the heroes of Thalasia, but I felt that these were the greatest stories that needed to be committed to paper.