By: Invexeor
It seems at this moment necessary in our righteous fight against the great power of the gods to devise a solution to that omnipresent issue that plagues all us mortals. The current working solution of Lichdom is far too cumbersome to be truly useful on a large scale. Something far more proactive is needed. Herein I present my postulations on a better solution to death.

First we must examine what it means to die. From my understanding, to die is simply for the soul to leave the physical vessel that is the body. However, the conditions that make a body habitable for a soul seems rather nondeterministic. I have seen soldiers missing both arms and a leg still completely coherent, yet I have seen poor laborers fall from no more than 15 feet and be dead on impact. Regardless of these conditions, my point is that we first need to devise a way to prevent the soul from escaping the body. Once it leaves, the cumbersome process of resurrection, even in the case of the greatest liches, begins, and in our current predicament, we cannot allow the gods to get ahold of souls, as they will never return.

My hypothesis is that by performing a ritual to permanently bind the soul to the body, we can prevent it from leaving. However, this presents another issue. Those soldiers that I mentioned earlier were not able to continue fighting in their dismembered bodies. The body needs to remain able to perform its functions while the soul is retained. The ritual I have devised should create a feedback loop that uses the souls life force to prevent mortal injury to the body, which in turn allows the soul to keep functioning at full capacity and generating more life force.

This ritual I have created is the accumulation of many smaller experiments, and it would be disingenuous to not acknowledge all of those who have dedicated everything to this cause. That being said, this grand ritual is as follows: