It is on this day, the first of Solvik 25 AE, that I, High Priest Naer of the church of our lady Cielia, write this treatise. I hereby formally declare all magic and spellcasting forbidden in our settlement of Naerkamp. I do this not out of spite, but rather in protection of the people I have pledged my life to lead. We have seen just last night the destructive potential of the arcane "arts". Every citizen of Naerkamp shall know of it and know to avoid it like the blight. I shall first describe exactly what I saw last night, in hopes of properly conveying the gravity of the event and its implications. Then I will discuss the legacy that this terrible catastrophe shall carry for the Naeran people. I believe it is paramount that the information herein be documented in order to preserve the truth of this tragedy and show future generations exactly why I am making these decisions.

Just yesterday, on the eve of 33 Skogsang, a tumultuous rumble shook the very ground beneath our humble village. As soon as it happened, a pit sunk in my stomach, for I knew exactly what this meant. The prophecy. The coming catastrophe that Cielia had warned me about when she first appeared to me years ago. This had to be it. It could not be anything else.

As I made my way through the village, I found that every man, woman, and child had been awoken by the tremor. People were running to and fro in a panic. Hysteria was setting in. I knew I needed to take action. I summoned my personal retinue, who took no more than mere moments to don their armor and weapons, for they are the greatest fighters in the whole Vale. Following my soldiers, I donned my cuirass engraved with the sheaf and wreath of Cielia.  As we marched out of the keep and through the village, the people rallied behind us, inspired by the sight of Cielia's symbol backed by the strongest warriors they know. They bade us farewell and good luck as we left the village, crossing the Maelstrom Barrier. That roiling thunder storm quickly fell away as nothing more than an illusion. Some of the soldiers braced themselves from the storm, but found surprise when the lightning struck the ground and simply passed right through.

The storm soon faded away as we continued on towards Himmelknaus, birthplace of our people. We reached the Heuvelgrot, but the sight we beheld nearly routed my soldiers. Once the great Heuvelgrot held aloft the city of Himmelknaus, but in its place was a pit, devoid of all life. Glowing radiation cast a sickly blue hue across the grim sight. My vision blurred and faded as I gazed at the horror. I quickly steeled my resolved and looked further. I had initially thought the ground to be covered in earthen debris, but I now realized that the "debris" was the burnt corpses of the thousands of my brethren that had inhabited the great city at one point. Even I had to turn away when I realized this. My men cried out and started backing away. I called out for them to make way back to Naerkamp.

Those damn druids! Let it be known I was never a proponent, but it seems that they incurred the wrath of some hero or mage, and brought immolation upon the once great city.

The journey home was sullen and silent. I dreaded relaying the news of Himmelknaus' fate to my people. But I knew they should know.

So here I write now this official decree: Naerkamp and its devoted followers of Cielia do renounce the arcane in all ways, shapes, and forms. Spells of all manner shall be forever forbidden on these grounds so long as my name still holds weight here. I have no doubt that future scholars shall debate this decree but herein I lay out my reasoning on the matter.

As evident by the destruction of Himmelknaus, we see that no matter for what purpose one should happen to use their magic for, always will there be another who covets that power. I have no doubt that the famed druids whom I heard so much about during the Maelstrom were using their magic with benevolence. Why then should such a fate have befell them? To harness magic is to invite damnation to your doorstep. The moment you let it be known that you possess power, others will always covet it. This is precisely why our great protector Cielia teaches us that humility is the paramount virtue. When we stay humble, we protect ourselves and our land.