The play opens with a narrator high on a pulpit:
	"We begin our adventure in the late spring bloom of the month of Florum. All sorts of creatures scurry throughout the Shadowwood Forest searching for food newly sprouted after the rains of the previous month. A sweet-smelling breeze blows softly through luscious, green trees that tower over the forest floor. The trading town of Holfirth sits deep within Shadowwood Forest, profiting off of the products of the plentiful creatures that inhabit the woods. Under the rule of Lord Pixton, life is good in the province. Market squares in the town of Holfirth are alive with the hustle and bustle of all manner of folks trading pelts, horns, antlers, venom, and much more. About two days southwest of the town of Holfirth lies the small village of Dire Wolf Grotto. Even thicker woods crowd around a handful of buildings huddled together in a small clearing. At the center of the village is the Pelt Market. Carts haul shipments of wolf pelts to and fro, sending them out towards Holfirth to be sold in the markets there. A small troop of local guards watch over people as they go about their days. Mayor Graumil stands out front of the Town Hall watching the local hubbub. Traders and citizens barter for the pelts that hang in droves in the town square. These pelts come from the ever-howling Dire Wolves that are kept in the Wolf Pens just off the main drag. Their howls are omnipresent in the town, never stopping even during the brightest hour of the noon sun. Just across the street from the Wolf Pens, a squat, blue-wood sided building hides on the tree line. A sign hangs out front that reads 'The Lupine Archives'. A few small paned windows dot the front and sides of the one-story wooden building. It is here that our epic story begins."

A scream is heard offstage and the four heroes rush onstage to find a group of goblins on the stage. They engage in a choreographed fight scene. Once the goblins are defeated, the four heroes group up center stage and begin introducing themselves to each other.

At the end of the conversation, Helia says, "We have to find out why these goblins were here. One of them had this old book on them."

The stage transitions to a new scene of another town. There are dead goblins on the ground. A red female tiefling (Jiri) thanks the heroes for saving the town. Then a wispy haired old man hobbles up behind the party and introduces himself as Kram Bram. He name drops the Helvalic Dominion.

After a discussion, the group leaves stage again. The scene reopens on the party walking through the city of Holfirth. Kram says, "I thought we were done for in that old temple. I don't know how we managed to get out alive. But we've gotta figure out what these notes mean. We're going to need money too. Maybe you can join one of those arena fights while I go to the library."

The party joins the arena fight, but Helia 