The Elemental Plane of Air is among the inner planes, and is one of the more hospitable of the elemental planes. Upon arrival to the plane, the first things most notice are the beautiful blue skies and the abundant fresh air. The second thing that one notices is that they are falling downwards at a very fast speed. The plane of air is endless, a place of limitless skies for creatures to fly through. The plane has no concrete downwards direction, but the brains of terrestrial creatures need to orient themselves, so whatever direction their brain determines is downwards suddenly becomes reality for them. These creatures usually fall until either they hit one of the rare motes of matter that float through the plane and die, or they die of starvation or thirst.

Creatures that fly have no issue navigating this plane, and often find themselves able to fly even faster than usual because of the abundant wind currents here. Interestingly, creatures that are naturally swimmers, often find themselves able to swim through the air alongside their flying companions because their brains have no sense of downwards either.

Terrestrial creatures that have made their home on the Plane of Air have also developed different ways to travel across the plane as well. The hardest but most efficient method is for the creatures to force their brain to change its idea of downwards constantly as they fall through the air, essentially falling their way across the plane. The preferred method of travel for terrestrial creatures though is with airships. They look like aquatic ships, except they hang beneath large balloons filled with hot air that catch the wind currents.

### Factions
The biggest unified faction on the Plane of Air is the Aereum Empire. The Aereum are mostly air genasi, with a few terrestrial peoples among their ranks. The capital of the Aereum Empire is Aerus Prima, a large city built around one of the few chunks of earth on the plane. The air genasi trace their lineage all the way back to [[The Great Serpents#The Sky Serpent|Himmelslang]], the Great Serpent of the Sky. It's said that the original air genasi were the offspring of Himmelslang and a powerful Djinni named [[Sidha ibn Amaal]] that he met in his first years on the plane after the [[The Great Dissension|Great Dissension.]] The most powerful air genasi families take pride in having a very accurate account of their lineage all the way back to the original union between Himmelslang and Sidha. The leader of the Aereum Empire is called the Stratos Rex. The position is currently held by Windra Vento-Natus, a member of the long-standing Vento-Natus family.

Another faction on the Plane of Air is the Djinn Caliphate. It is ruled by the Grand Caliph, who is the most powerful Djinni on the plane and resides in the Citadel of Ice and Steel. This palace is built on a cloud and is made of terrestrial steel and never-melting ice mined from the Plane of Ice. A Djinni by the name of Yeshil has held the position of Grand Caliph for many centuries now, and has continually proven herself to be a strong-willed and powerful leader. The job of the Grand Caliph is not easy at all, since the Djinni continually try to seize whatever power they can, and are not happy being under the rule of another.