#### Population
The population of Spellhaven is around 26,620 (29% Humans, 28% Elves, 22% Half-Elves, 14% Gnomes, 7% Other).

#### Government
The governing body of [[Valdens]] rules from Spellhaven, and also acts as the city's government as well. The main body of the government is known as the Arcane Assembly. It is a collection of the nation's wisest mages, where right to rule is heavily based on meritocratic ideals. During proceedings, mages constantly try to outwit each other, often leading to legislation taking an extraordinary amount of time to pass.

Within the Arcane Assembly, the Octoclave is comprised of the eight most powerful mages, one from each school of magic. The Octoclave has the final say in disputed matters, although this is only if progress on an issue has reached a complete standstill, which almost never happens. Thus, the positions in the Octoclave are more symbolic than anything. The mages of the Octoclave are most often informally called the Deuces, which comes from the Octoclave's motto, duces inter pares (leaders among equals).

#### Defense
Since its creation during the [[An Overall History Of Chandaria#The Arcane Resurgence|Arcane Resurgence]], Spellhaven has been known for its superior defensibility. The city is built like a multi-layered fortress. Large polished stone walls separate the city into districts, and each have large arcane cannons placed at intervals along the walls. The center of the city, the Volantrum, floats in the air above the rest of the city, kept afloat by an arcane engine somewhere in the depths of the Crystal Forum. Lining the edges of the Volantrum are even stronger arcane cannons. It's also said that the main spire of the Crystal Forum was once used as the focus of an extremely powerful evocation spell and could be used in the same way again if necessary.

Meanwhile, the Spellhaven Citizen's Militia of Mages, or SCMM (members are often referred to as "Skims"), keep the city safe from internal threats. The SCMM is comprised solely of ordinary citizens of the city who have undergone training in peacekeeping magic. They wear simple robes branded with the insignia of the militia on the back, a silver eight-pointed star surrounded by a thin gold band with runes inside. A midnight blue shield shape surrounds the emblem, completing the insignia. Wherever it is printed, the insignia seems to shimmer with soft silver light.

#### Commerce
Spellhaven's main exports are not traditional trade goods, but rather knowledge. The city researches at a rate that is simply unproduceable by any other institution. Many of the research institutions in the city operate fervently under the [[The Kainomantic Principles|Kainomantic principles]] that first allowed the city to flourish. Unbounded by strict research ethics, the city produces research that other institutions wouldn't even be allowed to. Most of the common research and knowledge of the city is available to everyone, but the more niche or risky the research is, the more it costs to access. The expensive knowledge is usually only available to longstanding partners of the city's research institutions anyways.

### General Information
Spellhaven was built at the height of the [[An Overall History Of Chandaria#The Arcane Resurgence|Arcane Resurgence]] by a collective of [[The Kainomantic Principles|Kainomancers]] who were looking for a place to build a city with magic at its core. They used conjuration and transmutation magic to raise the walls and buildings of the city from the ground, truly establishing the city's magical roots. The founders' original vision was to transform the entire island into a sprawling magical metropolis which would become the crown jewel of Chandaria. Their dream was never realized in their time, since the [[An Overall History Of Chandaria#The Astral Devastation|Astral Devastation]] that followed the [[An Overall History Of Chandaria#The Arcane Resurgence|Arcane Resurgence]] severely hindered the city's expansion for a long while.