Gods of the upper planes fought the gods of the lower planes for control over all realms. The war ultimately ended in a stalemate, and further reinforced the split between the upper and lower planes. Remnants of this war can be seen everywhere. On all planes, ancient remains of gods killed in this war can be found. Creatures still exist that witnessed the Great Dissension but they are few and far between and often choose to isolate themselves from the modern society. Many religions can also be traced back to this war as well, as gods recruited mortals to fight on their sides, spawning religions for those gods.

### The Scourge
During the Great Dissension. The Gods taught mortals how to harness the arcane power of the weave, creating the first great wizards, the Ancient Archmages. The Ancients gained enough power through the Gods to create their own god-killing weapons. Gods were killed during the Great Dissension, leaving their bodies strewn across the material plane. Eventually, the Ancient Archmages realized that they had power that rivalled the Gods, and decided to band together and turn on them, thus starting The Scourge. The alliance of the Ancients became known as the Antiety League. The lower and upper Gods remained fighting each other, while the Ancients entered the fight as a third party. At the climax of the Scourge, the Battle of the Planes, the gods were forced to retreat to their own planes, but not before combining all of their power to banish the Ancients to the farthest corners of the Multiverse.

### Ancient Artifacts
Powerful magical items remain from the Great Dissension. The Ancients constructed lairs, vaults to store their god-killing weapons, and other powerful magic items that they created. When the Ancients were split up and banished to the edges of the Multiverse, they left behind these weapons and artifacts in their vaults, which took the form of towers, underground ruins, old forts, and mansions, posing as the premier dungeons for the most ambitious of adventurers.

### The Spread of Arcane Knowledge
During the Dissension, the Ancient Archmages spread arcane knowledge and technologies across the Material Plane in a slight of the Gods. This explains the existence of a lot of the uncommon magic items found across the world in various ruins and whatnot. These technologies were abandoned in those ruins at some point during the Dissension due to the owners being slain in the war or leaving them behind. The pervasive nature of these uncommon and slightly rare magical items are also in part thanks to lesser mages that began practicing the arcane arts inspired by the Ancients.