# Enulon
Enulon is the largest and oldest continent on Argena. It's located in the western hemisphere and spans most of the region from north to south. It has an extremely diverse landscape of sweeping plains, towering mountain ranges, and fertile river valleys. Eastern Enulon is much more developed than the west, as the shortest sea routes to the other continents are from the Eastern coast.

Enulon is thought to be the oldest continent because of the works of the First Builders. This mysterious race of people constructed massive stone structures. These ruins are scattered across the entire continent, and suggest that this civilization had advanced knowledge of engineering. What confuses many scholars is that it seems as though the civilization must have had some sort of magical ability to be able to construct these buildings because they are simply to large and too advanced to be made simply by hand. However, these structures were ruined and the First Builders were long gone by the time that the earliest records of Tilarien were written. These records were written around 8,000 years Pre-Dissension. Thus, the First Builders would have had no way to use magic since mortals weren't granted spellcasting until the Great Dissension. While this is by no means what Enulon is most known for, it is one of Argena's most defining historical events.

Modern Enulon is known as a melting pot of cultures. Descendants from ancient empires and newer settlers coexist in large cities and small villages all across the continent. Economically, Enulon is known as a trading powerhouse simply due to the diverse goods that it has access to.