#### Population
The population of Dalonstor is 32,538 (52% Humans, 29% Elves, 7% Dwarves, 7% Halflings, 5% Other).
#### Government
The government in Dalonstor has a strong history of corruption, and the current mayor, Reev Rocc is no different. The mayor holds ultimate control over the city, and chooses their council members when they are elected. Election is a generous word to describe the choosing of the mayor. Every year during Planimor, an election is held where any citizen of the kingdom is welcome to run for mayor. However, everyone knows that without a violent upheaval, there is no chance of beating the incumbent. Political opponents tend to go missing too.
#### Defense
The city of Dalonstor itself boasts little in the means of defensive structures. There are no walls and no siege equipment. Rather, most of the military might of Dalonstor is supplied by the neighboring capital city of Falstor. The only armed force that belongs to Dalonstor itself is the Nightstalkers, a new group created by Reev Rocc to keep the peace in the city. 
#### Commerce
Dalonstor is above all else a naval powerhouse. Situated on the coast of the Azure Expanse, the city began as a simple fishing town and trading post, and then grew to become the Kingdom's largest shipyard. The Kingdom of Falstor boasts a very strong navy, not quite as strong as No'zaral or the Atrisean Dynasty, but by far the most powerful in Eastern Chandaria. All maritime trade for Falstor goes through the ports of Dalonstor, but the citizens never seem to see any of this money, it all goes up to the capital city. Most of the money that circulates through the city itself comes from fishing instead. The fishing waters of the coast are controlled by the 4 most powerful families in the city, the Houses of Mason, Pili, Rocc, and Alystri. These Houses are constantly vying with each other for influence in the city. To them, controlling the fish is controlling the city.
#### Organizations
The Mayor of Dalonstor is often also called the King's Steward. The Mayor is the leader of the Steward's Council, which consists of the mayor, the leader of the fishing guild, the Captain of the Watch, the leader of the shipwright's guild, and the Champion of the Arena. The Steward's council controls essentially everything in the city. It just so happens that when Reev Rocc took of the city, he installed his family members into all of the positions on the Steward's Council. These days, any slight against House Rocc means the entire city turning against you. The only institution independent of the Steward's Council is the 
#### History
Dalonstor was chartered in 2037 PS, when King Reudan of the newly created Kingdom of Falstor decided that it was necessary for their nation to establish maritime trade routes to build positive relations with the surrounding nations of Rodigia and Stormion, and to expand the city of Falstor's fishing market. A small settlement of around 100 people set up a small village on the coast, and began constructing fishing and trading vessels, as well as the King's Steps.
##### The Trench
Life in early Dalonstor was miserable. The inhabitants worked from dawn to dusk building ships, cleaning fish, hauling stone, and constructing the King's Steps. One man, a dwarf named Uhtred Wavebreaker, took it upon himself to keep the people of Dalonstor entertained. In his backyard, he constructed a small wooden ring and named it The Trench. Here, he started a fighting club for the local fisherman and the traveling vagabonds that made their way through the town on the way to Falstor. The Trench ended up becoming extremely popular, and Uhtred quickly gained enough money to build a dedicated arena.

As the Trench grew larger, fighters from further and further came to prove themselves in the arena. People also called the Trench "The Great Arena of Dalonstor". Uhtred Wavebreaker became very much a legend in the arena, as the founder and first champion of the arena.

#### The Houses of Dalonstor
As Dalonstor grew, 6 families sought power more than the rest: Alystri, Mason, Pili, Rocc, Liadon, and Wymar. These families all had stakes in both the fishing industry and the shipbuilding industry. They killed each other over fishing territory, building technology, and even romantic affairs. In 2189 PS, in a feud over a new shipbuilding technique, House Pili slaughtered House Wymar, killing all of its members and burning the Wymar Manor to the ground. Known as the Night of Embers, it sparked discussion among the houses. They all convened and signed the House Combat Compromise. Through this agreement, the houses agreed that whichever house the champion of the arena belonged to would hold the ultimate bargaining power in house feuds. Because of this, the arena became even more central to life in Dalonstor.

In 2251 PS, Oriana of house Liadon married Prince Rolan III of Falstor. King Rolan II was very old at the time of the wedding, and Rolan III was crowned King the following year. House Liadon moved out of Dalonstor and became a royal house in the city of Falstor.

The remaining 4 houses: Alystri, Mason, Pili, and Rocc remain to this day, and are still constantly feuding. The modern houses each have about 20 members and 20 loyal retinue soldiers per house. Alystri and Rocc are the 2 most powerful houses, but since House Rocc holds all spots on the Steward's Council, Alystri is heavily persecuted by them.