# Galvenport
**Population:** 51,260 (37% humans, 14% elves, 21% half-elves, 11% gnomes, 9% halflings, 8% other races)

**Government:** Chief Magnate Thedric Alfir rules over the Larenthian Alliance from his throne here. He is known to be a slightly harsh but overall fair ruler. This city has a large amount of overseers, as well as apprentice overseers who train to be deployed to hamlets across the alliance. Chief Alfir consults with a council, known as the Mercantable, that consists of heads of industry from each major city in the alliance. These heads of industry reside mostly in Galvenport, so they have a tendency to be not very in-tune with the true needs of their represented people.

**Defense:** The capital city boasts a state of the art defensive system designed and built by the master inventors of [[Bippenbol]]. The outer wall of the city is roughly 25 feet tall and made of large blocks of stone. Each tower along the wall has a catapult loaded with black powder bombs. Within the city, the Constabulary keeps the peace among the citizenry. Constables can be identified by the Galvenport insignia, a gold coin overlaid on a simple ship, embossed into their breastplate. The Chief Magnate employs his own noble guard.

**Commerce:** Nearly all goods are available in Galvenport, including illegal items. The underground market is sourced from a thriving smuggling empire on the sea. Contraband items include certain black powder devices, illegal magic items, and hallucinogenic substances.

**Organizations:** The Larenthian Trade Federation is headquartered in the city, and oversees all trade that happens in the Alliance. The Underguild runs the black market and all illegal activity in the city. The Divinaire Institute of [[Wizendell]] also has a campus in the city and holds some sway in trading and politics.

Galvenport originated as a small seaside trading post run by the then merchant lord Lawrence Galaven. Over time, through clever business deals and a fortunate location on the coast, Galvenport grew to be an expansive and prosperous city. Once Galvenport had grown to considerable size, pirates and bandits started to become a serious problem. Pirates harassed merchant ships on the sea, and bandits attacked traders travelling over land. Galvenport was losing a lot of trade. It was at this point that Galaven realized he needed support in securing his lands. He reached out to the nearby large cities with a request for an alliance. Thus, the Larenthian Alliance was formed, mostly out of a need for security, and to grow the wealth of all the neighboring cities.
Galvenport now has the most diverse available goods in the Alliance. All of the cities in the Alliance transport goods to Galvenport to have them sold to other nations. Merchant ships from many nations of Chandaria travel to Galvenport to trade exotic and illegal goods.
The city itself is made of mostly stone brick and whitewashed wood buildings packed tightly together, funneling traders and consumers alike down crowded city streets. The center of the city, the Gilded Bastion, sits perched atop a low hill, making it such that the Harbor of Nations can be seen from most of the city. Separated from the rest of the bustling, crowded city streets, the richest of Galvenport live in the Windswept Gardens. Here in their large mansions and with lush trees and hedgerows, the upper class control the trade coming in and out of the city. In the Gilded Bastion, Alfir lives in and works from the Grand Keep. His council members also live in lavish mansions in the Bastion.
Besides a large port and artisan district, Galvenport has many divine temples. Alfir has outlawed the worship of certain gods however, namely [[Asmodeus]], [[Tiamat]], [[Lolth]], [[Vecna]], and [[Harmonia]]. All of the banned gods besides Harmonia are outlawed because they have been ruled as not conducive to prosperous trade. Worship of Harmonia is banned because of the Arcane Revolution.
### High Society Living
The Chief and his family live in the Platinum Palace atop the Treska Plateau (named after Siegfried Treska, the third Chief Magnate of the Larenthian Alliance). The members of the Mercantable, who are also by far the richest denizens of Galvenport, live at the bottom of the Ascent in large, walled-in estates known as Golden Heights. Only members of these families or people with direct invitations from members of the Mercantable or the Chief can enter into Golden Heights through the gates. The members of the Mercantable are known to throw extremely lavish parties quite often, and other elite people that don't live within Golden Heights spend multiple nights a week boozing with the members of the Mercantable. It is rare for Alfir to join these parties, but he shows every once in a while to make his presence felt.
Outside Golden Heights, the upper class lives in the Inner Locks. This is the largest enclosed district within the city. 