The effects of the beginning of [[The Great Dissension|the Great Dissension]] were felt across the Planes. In Arborea, the realms of Seldoris and Olympia broke out in war following the start of the Great Dissension. While no deities from either side would die from this conflict, many inhabitants from both realms would lose their lives in the fighting.
## Casus Belli
The inciting incident for the war was an Olympian attack on [[Seldoris#Grandfather Oak|Grandfather Oak]] in Seldoris in 7 YD. Harmonia and her Seldori, who joined the Great Dissension as part of the Upper Planes Alliance, were using Grandfather Oak as a hub to move Alliance troops across the Planes. A contingent of Olympian descendants led by a Sphinx named Kaarsi, who would later become a great general for the Olympians, infiltrated Grandfather Oak through an unmaintained portal and laid waste to the great tree, before escaping back through the portal. This prompted the Seldori Council to immediately declare war on the Olympians and plan their prompt retaliation.

At the time, the raid on Grandfather Oak may have seemed somewhat unwarranted, but in reality, it was simply the product of a schism that had grown between the two realms since the beginning of the [[The Great Dissension|Dissension]]. Unbeknownst to Harmonia, the Olympians were old allies of Chaos, who had sheltered them as they traveled up through Limbo. The Olympians had secretly joined the Lower Planes Concord to follow along with their old ally. In the years between the start of the Dissension and the attack on Grandfather Oak, the Olympians were plotting to cripple Seldoris.
## Significant Events
The Seldo-Olympian War lasted for 6 years, which is relatively short for most wars. Its short timeline is often attributed to the stress on both sides from fighting in two all-out wars at once. The first and last years of the Seldo-Olympian war saw the most intense fighting.
### Year One
Following the attack on Grandfather Oak and the Seldori Council's declaration of war, the retaliation from the Seldori was swift and violent. This was one of the few times during the war that Harmonia directly joined the fighting. The Seldori quickly traced the portal used in the Grandfather Oak raid back to its origin in Olympia. They found the origin point to be a lone mountain near the Seldoris border whose summit was being used as an outlook point and military fort for the Olympians. A specialized force, alongside Harmonia herself, traveled through the portal to attack the fort. Using their mastery of Harmonic magic, the Seldorians unleashed a powerful barrage of spells on the surprised Olympians. As the Olympians came to their senses and began to rally, the Seldoris troops retreated while Harmonia stayed. Once her troops had retreated and closed the portal, Harmonia rose in her true form above the summit and unleashed her full might, destroying the entire mountain, turning it into nothing more than a smoldering crater.

Following this retaliation, Seldoris troops made significant headway into occupying Olympia. This was the trend for most of the first two years.
### Year Three
As the war raged on and the Seldoris troops continued their campaign into the heart of Olympia, occupation and death became the norm for many inhabitants of Olympia. Because of this, many more Olympians were willing to join the war effort on the frontlines. As Seldoris citizens grew complacent with the war, the Olympians rallied and grew stronger. With Seldoris forces spread thin across Olympia, the Olympians were able to use guerilla warfare tactics to slowly liberate many of their towns.

At the same time, Harmonia was very occupied with the Dissension. The Olympians seized the opportunity and raised an army that successfully drove the Seldorians from their lands, and even managed to set up an outpost across the border, on the shores of Lake Goneril.

Following this liberation, the war entered a period of stalemate, and the next few years saw little change in territory or power.

### Year Six
13 YD saw the explosion of kinetic energy that had been building up in the previous two years of stalemate. From their outpost by Lake Goneril, the Olympian forces had been sending forces up and down the Silverflow river, terrorizing the towns and villages that sat on the river banks.

In year six, the Olympian naval forces had gained control of the Silverflow river all the way up to the Sparkling Sea. It was here however that they would finally meet their match. A fleet of Elven warships, moored in Sea Elf Grotto and led by the Seldori Vaprana, crossed paths with an Olympian raiding fleet. The Olympian fleet retreated to the mouth of the Silverflow river, easily outrunning the slower warships. At the river mouth, the raiding ships regrouped with the rest of the Olympian fleet and engaged the Elven warships. Both sides sustained heavy losses, but the turning point of the battle was when Esylra and a group of her elite wood elf rangers arrived on the river banks behind the Olympian fleet to support Vaprana's warships. The rangers attacked from the treetops unseen, catching the Olympians completely by surprise. Esylra herself fired an arrow that struck the Olympian admiral through the eye and killed him. With the support of the rangers, Vaprana's fleet completely destroyed the Olympian ships, as the Silverflow river ran red with blood.

After regaining control of the Silverflow river, both sides gathered troops around Lake Goneril, shaping up for the climactic battle of the war. At this point in the fighting, both sides had lost thousands of troops, and both realms had seen much destruction. In addition, the Dissension was showing no sign of stopping. Both Harmonia and the Olympians grew desperate to end this war.

On the shores of Lake Goneril, 100,000 troops met on the battlefield to decide the outcome of the war. A large group of Olympian Gorgons led the charge into the Seldorian ranks, breaking through the line and unleashing their petrification on the soldiers. A platoon of Cyclopes was close behind, shattering the petrified Seldorians and spreading chaos among the nearby Elven forces. Siedus and the other Seldori struggled to rally their troops.

While the battle on the ground raged on, Harmonia fought the entire Olympian Pantheon in the sky above the battlefield. They kept each other occupied, leaving both sides of mortals to fight for themselves. Back on the ground, the much larger Olympian troops were gaining significant ground on the Seldorians. When all hope seemed lost, the waters of Lake Goneril began to glow and covered the battlefield in fog. The Olympian troops were completely unable to see. At the same time, the arms and armor of the Seldoris soldiers began to glow with power, and they became able to see in the mist. This completely changed the battle, as the Seldori were quickly able to cut down the blinded Olympian troops.

Seeing their forces demolished, the Olympian Gods surrendered to Harmonia and the war ended. The Olympian Gods agreed to pay tribute of gold and Harmonium to Seldoris. Lake Goneril was never the same after that battle. The lake refused to give up its dead. Any attempts made to clear the bodies failed, they seemed stuck to the ground and water. The area fell into abandon, and the bodies remained on the shores for eternity.