# The Larenthian Alliance
The Larenthian Alliance was formed around 1000 years ago in the year 1508 PS by the merchant lord turned ruler, Chief Magnate Lawrence Galaven. The Alliance started out as mainly a trade alliance between the local towns. Over time it transformed into a political alliance as well. In the modern day, the cities are all very closely knit politically, but the cities are each entitled to enforce their own laws as well. The Larenthian Federation is the political body that governs the united cities. The current Chief Magnate is Thedric Alfir. The Chief Magnate is often referred to as just "The Chief", or "Chief Alfir". Alfir is a harsh but fair ruler. He values order above all else. Justice is swift but not overreaching. Laws are enforced by the Overseers. There are a few Overseers per town that coordinate the enforcement of Federal laws. The Overseers work with the town guards to enforce both Local and Federal laws. The Larenthian Federation doesn't provide any basic guards to the cities, it only provides Overseers. The capital of the Alliance is Galvenport. The Federation has its headquarters there, and the Chief Magnate lives there as well. The power of the Federation does not go unquestioned however. Cities in the past have attempted to rise up and leave the Federation, but heavy trade embargos swiftly reign them back in to the Alliance.

The Larenthian Alliance is bordered on the East by the Northern branch of the Twin Straits. To the south the border is defined by the edge of the Eternal Scorch. To the west is the Martyr's Summits.