# The Larenthian Alliance
Capital City: Galvenport

The Larenthian Alliance was formed around 1000 years ago in the year 1508 PS by the merchant lord turned ruler, Chief Magnate Lawrence Galaven. The Alliance started out as mainly a trade alliance between the local towns. Over time it transformed into a political alliance as well. In the modern day, the cities are all very closely knit politically, but the cities are each entitled to enforce their own laws as well. The Larenthian Federation is the political body that governs the united cities. The current Chief Magnate is Thedric Alfir. The Chief Magnate is often referred to as just "The Chief", or "Chief Alfir". Alfir is a harsh but fair ruler. He values order above all else. Justice is swift but not overreaching. Laws are enforced by the Overseers. There are a few Overseers per town that coordinate the enforcement of Federal laws. The Overseers work with the town guards to enforce both Local and Federal laws. The Larenthian Federation doesn't provide any basic guards to the cities, it only provides Overseers. The capital of the Alliance is Galvenport. The Federation has its headquarters there, and the Chief Magnate lives there as well. The power of the Federation does not go unquestioned however. Cities in the past have attempted to rise up and leave the Federation, but heavy trade embargos swiftly reign them back in to the Alliance.

The Larenthian Alliance is bordered on the East by the Northern branch of the Twin Straits. To the south the border is defined by the edge of the Eternal Scorch. To the west is the Martyr's Summits.

### Goals
The goals of the Larenthian Alliance are quite simple. Since its inception, the Alliance has stood on the grounds of accumulating as much wealth as possible. The initial allying of the cities of Larenthia in 1508 PS was the last time that the borders of the Alliance were expanded. The Larenthian Alliance has never fought in an offensive war in all its time, and has relied solely on fortifications on its borders and defensive prowess to win the conflicts it has been involved in. Because of this history, another goal that much of the government agrees on is by funding the development of military defenses on the borders.
There is a sect of the government that has grown more powerful in recent times that advocates for increasing the power of the Larenthian Federation, and making the cities of the Alliance more alike and connected. This would give more power to the government through being able to closely affect the laws and trade in the cities. The opposing faction in the government counters with saying that this would be taking freedom away from the cities and undermining what makes the heart of the Alliance. 

### Relationships
The Larenthian Alliance tries to maintain cordial relations with all the other nations of Chandaria because its good for trade and business. However, this leads to most of the other nations seeing the Alliance as somewhat of pushovers, and they have been often targeted in past wars. There have been two major wars in the Alliance's lifespan. The first war, The Omen War, between the Alliance and the former nation of Stormion. This war ended in a stalemate, not leading to any significant gains in territory for either side. This war is of little importance now since Falstor took over all of Stormion's land. However, were the Stormion loyalists to return to power, they might go after the Alliance next. The other significant war was with Norlund. This is known as the War of Scorched Earth. This war happened in 2357 PS, and resulted in a 50 year occupation of the Espwynstead Province. Eventually through diplomacy and trade embargos, the Alliance was able to reclaim the region, and focus on reinforcing the coastal border. Other than these two wars, there are often small raids from the people of Norlund to raze the villages in the Espwynstead province and steal food, cattle, and gold.
The Alliance otherwise maintains very strong relations with the other nations of Chandaria. They are especially tightly allied with Valdens, as Wizendell and Spellhaven share a ton of arcane knowledge as it relates to divination.
In terms of intranational relationships, most citizens of the Alliance dislike the federation in general, because of the bureaucratic laws that are put on the people, and because of the taxes that the federation takes from local businesses. However, they do acknowledge that the Alliance does provide a comfortable life for most people within.
Chief Alfir, being the ruler of the Alliance, is not allowed to sit on the Federation board, but members of his council are, and he has very good relations with the Federation regardless, because of the heavy dues that it pays to the Chief's coffers.

### Figures of Interest
#### Chief Magnate Thedric Alfir
Chief Alfir is in his third decade being the ruler of Larenthia. While the Alliance doesn't have a bloodline succession, the children of Chief's often have an increased chance of becoming Chiefs themselves. Alfir's father was not a Chief himself, but was a very prominent merchant in Galvenport, and sat on the Federation board in his later years. Alfir is 67 years old, and currently trying to leverage his power to get his son, Godfrey Alfir, to become the next Chief, but the Federation board is not huge fans of having another Alfir in power. Thedric is well respected by his council, as well as by most members of the Federation board. He is also fairly well-liked by citizens of the Alliance, but is not without his dissenters, who are often people wanting to overthrow the Federation as a whole.

#### Prince Godfrey Alfir
While "prince" is not an official title, many people in the Alliance call Godfrey the Prince because of how his father, Chief Alfir, is trying to establish a blood succession for the throne. Godfrey is very adamant on taking the throne once his father dies or relinquishes it. He is trying to get all of the Council to like him, but is finding it harder than he originally thought, as everyone's opinion on a familial succession overpowers whatever opinion they may have about him as a person.
Godfrey is currently 23 years old and spends most of his time partying, hunting, and sparring. When he's not doing one of these things, he is unsuccessfully trying to gain influence in the Council.

#### Councilman Gerald Shaffer
Councilman Shaffer sits on the Chief's council and is a pretty trusted and well-respected member. He also holds the position of Treasurer of the Larenthian Federation. The treasurer position is responsible for handling taxes and deciding where funds are sent once collected. Shaffer works very closely with the Overseer Supreme to coordinate tax and fine collection from all of the cities, towns, and villages of the Alliance. Shaffer is known to be a little hot-headed sometimes, and can make some rash decisions.

#### Supreme Overseer Helga Lawbringer
The Lawbringers have been the heads of the overseers for multiple generations now. Helga also sits on the Chief's council. Helga is very lazy at her job because of how long her family has held the position and how secure her job is because of that. She coordinates with the Overseers below her, who themselves are each responsible for one of the major cities. Helga is not super fond of Chief Alfir, but keeps a working relationship with him.

#### Head Diviner Dormar Talovol
Dormar is a half-elf who is the Head Diviner of the Alliance. He also serves as the headmaster of the Divinaire Institute at [[Wizendell]]. He travels between the two places very often and is very involved at both. When there are decisions that concern Wizendell versus the Alliance, he tends to side with Wizendell. Dormar is a patient and generally well-liked man. He is just as much of an intellectual, as he is a politician.