# Chandaria
The continent of Chandaria sits in the northeastern region of Argena (The Shattered Lands). Chandaria is home to many factions and kingdoms, and sports the whole gamut of climates. To the north there are snowy mountains and windswept tundra. To the south are tropical islands and fetid swamps. In the center of the continent is [[#The Eternal Scorch]], a blistering hot desert with no more than small oases sprinkled throughout. Chandaria was home to multiple Ancient Archmages during [[The Great Dissension]] and still contains many Pre-Dissension era ruins.
## Factions and Kingdoms
### The Kingdom of Falstor
[Falstor](The%20Kingdom%20of%20Falstor) encompasses the southeastern and northeastern peninsulas of the continent. Prior to the war with Stormion and the subsequent siege of the capital city, Falstor only occupied the southern peninsula, but the war for resources expanded their territory greatly. Falstor is ruled by the powerful King Offal. He conducts affairs leveraging both the economic and militaristic might of the kingdom. The capital city of the kingdom is the aptly named [[Falstor]].

### The Larenthian Alliance
[[The Larenthian Alliance]] presides in the north central region of Chandaria, just above [[#The Eternal Scorch]]. It consists of multiple independent cities, united under a commercial federation. The alliance is lead by Chief Magnate Thedric Alfir from its capital city of [[Galvenport]]. The Larenthian Federation is held together by Overseers. These government workers are distributed to each city and are tasked with ensuring the enforcement of Federal Laws. Besides these laws, each city is free to govern its denizens as it sees fit. Most of the cities in Larenthia are built around some sort of flourishing export economy, whether it's wine, metal, potions, or clockwork machines.
## The Eternal Scorch