# Owlbear Enclave
Mayor: Jiri Lanorys
Overseer: Iolis Batira

Owlbear Enclave is built around a small babbling brook that runs from a spring in a nearby hillside. The brook is used for a few mills in town, as well as to drive machines that assist in the stripping of Owlbear pelts for feathers, and the harvesting of Owlbear talons. Master Harvester Bob Biggum extracts the livers of the harvested Owlbears. These are most often used in Alchemy, and such most are shipped off to [[Wizendell]]. Most of the buildings in the village are built in a very medieval European style, but with many different colors, more like some Scandinavian towns. The mayor's name is Jiri Lanorys. She is a Tiefling from No'zaral. She came here because her family of scribes was disgraced and banished from the land for disobeying a noble's orders. She found her way here and soon became the mayor because of her learned nature. The overseer of the town is Iolis Batira, a half-elf man who is incredibly boring and mundane. He is just here to do his job and get paid, nothing else.
Owlbear Enclave is home to quite a few colorful characters. Kram Bram, the local archaeologist in charge of Kram's Archaeology Shop, is an old man who is raring for an adventure. When given the opportunity to explore Helvalic Ruins, he jumps on board right away. Darryn Filoris is the antithesis to Kram. He is the very intelligent archivist at the Everwake Archives, he lacks all of Kram's ambition and gusto. Darryn would much rather spend his days inside reading with his cat Snookie.