Thalasia is the bottom layer of [[Elysium]]. It is reserved for only the most noble of heroes. The layer itself is mostly ocean, with small islands that dot the expansive waters. The center of the plane is considered to be [[The Golden Hearth|Cielia's Golden Hearth]], with it being visible no matter where you are within Thalasia. When a great hero dies and is sent to Elysium by [[Mortessa]], they arrive in the Golden Hearth and are greeted with a grand feast and the entire layer spends between a day and an entire week partying and celebrating the hero. After their arrival banquet is complete, [[Cielia]] grants each hero their own island to live out their days on.

Thalasia is a realm of peace, where all of the inhabitants are compelled by the plane's energy to help each other and coexist without issue. Despite this, there is still an armed force that stands ready to defend the plane should the need arise. They are known as guardinals. The guardinals are souls of heroes that aren't quite ready to give up their lives of fighting just yet. They protect not only Thalasia, but all of [[Elysium]]. On Thalasia, they mainly concern themselves with Sahuagin incursions and the Thalastrom.

It's not certain exactly where the Sahuagins on Thalasia come from, but it is most likely that they come through whirlpool portals that open up on the Plane of Water and spit them out on Thalasia. The Sahuagins never pose too serious of a threat to Thalasia. The most they do is accost travelers and attempt to rob them. The more serious threat on Thalasia is the Thalastrom, a roiling hurricane-like thunderstorm that rages across the layer, destroying everything in its way, including entire islands. The storm has continued nonstop for millennia, and most attribute it's creation to [[Gruumsh]] during the [[Gods and Mythos (Aeonic Pantheon)#The First Blood War and the Creation of Acheron|First Blood War]]. While much of the Thalastrom's behavior is unknown, what is known is its extremely destructive potential. Since its discovery, the guardinals have tracked its location very carefully. It is constantly monitored, to ensure that any islands that it is approaching are evacuated.

### Notable Inhabitants
- [[Pylaxes]]
- Ilothar Ilbrie
- Thariel Sylvarin