Knoglir was born in 348 PD. During the dissension, he fought for the Upper Planes Alliance, where he would eventually meet a young Ileus under the service of Genesis. The two of them bonded, and Ileus taught Knoglir the power of knowledge. Knoglir was immediately sold on this. He grew and Ileus quickly became very close friends, as Ileus would teach Knoglir everything that Genesis taught him about arcane magic. This friendship wouldn't last forever however.

Through all of their time together, Ileus never told Knoglir of the growing Anteitic movement. Ileus believed that Knoglir wouldn't understand since the dragons were granted innate magical powers from the fracture. They had not known oppression like the humanoids had.

When the Divine Betrayal happened at the Battle for Caelum Insula, Ileus was standing right next to Knoglir, and he turned to him, and said "I'm sorry friend, but I promise you'll understand some day", before throwing a charged delayed blast fireball at Knoglir and manifesting a solid Illusory barrier beneath himself to escape just before it exploded. Knoglir survived but was unable to fight for the rest of that battle and had to take time to heal, his confusion turning to hatred for Ileus.

During the Scourge, Knoglir was put on a special task force by Genesis to hunt down the Archmages, especially Ileus. Knoglir encountered Ileus again during the Battle of the Spine, in what is now Norlund. Ileus blinded the Alliance's army with a massive illusory blizzard. His small army of mages were able to ambush the Alliance army and force them into a retreat. Knoglir himself attempted to get near Ileus, but Ileus was easily able to counter him and send him into a retreat.

In Knoglir's memory of the battle: For days, the Alliance army shivers in the cold of the blizzard. Knoglir is in his dragonborn form and his strength is sapped from the cold, while icicles hang off his scales. Screams ring out from beyond his vision from beyond in the camp as sharp ice shards rain down on the army from mages that snuck close in the snow. Knoglir immediately changed into his full Adult Dragon form and tried to fly above the blizzard. As he flew up, the blizzard was parted in the sky and Ileus appeared hovering through the air towards the battlefield, unaffected by the illusory blizzard.

After the Scourge, Knoglir felt lost, and wandered the planes for a while, meeting with old friends and enemies from the Dissension. He did this until the Rending of Skies, where he met Thalroth the Storm Wyrm and gained control of a large dominion.

During the Age of Dragons, Knoglir used his power to collect every bit of knowledge from those under his rule. He even performed a ritual called Mind Grafting where a special metal band was placed around someone's head and absorbed their mind into Knoglir's through a crown that he would wear. When he wasn't collecting knowledge from his underlings, he spent his days looking for the Relics of Dissension, in a hope of learning what became of Ileus. He eventually located the [[Relics of Dissension|Ring of Foresight]] in Mechanus and acquired it. However, the ring was lost when Knoglir was almost killed by the apprentice Thibeus during the fall of Thalroth's rule. During this period of liberation, Knoglir was attacked by a group lead by the apprentice Thibeus and narrowly escaped with his life. He retreated to his current lair with nothing but a few of his books and scrolls and spent the next centuries rebuilding his hoard.