Day: 28th of Florum, 2519 PS

The party should make it to the nexus during this session. Kardag still has a day before he reaches the nexus. He will reach it in the late morning of the 29th. He will first send in an expedition force of 3 goblins, 1 hobgoblin, and 1 bugbear. If the party already has the armor, he will attempt to bargain with them by telling them that if they join him in his assault on Holfirth, they can reap some of the plunder and maybe claim some land in the city. He can also offer to take the armor in exchange for information. He will give them information on his boss in exchange for the armor. His boss is Councilman Shaffer of the Chief Magnate Alfir's council. Councilman Shaffer is the Federation's treasurer and handles all the money. The Federation has a rule where individual cities are fined for incursions and raids in their territories. An attack on a main city is almost unheard of, and would result in a very hefty fine. The main goal of the attack is to cause a lot of damage to draw attention. Then when the fine is to be paid, Shaffer will report a larger number than required to the Holfirth government and pocket the excess. Shaffer told Kardag to use the Armor of Valos to assist them in raiding the city, and then to give it to him to put in the royal vault should the need for it arise again. Another part of Shaffer's plan that Kardag doesn't know about is to have the Overseer's in Holfirth give a lot of the town guards leave "for Soltide" so that there's less soldiers during the siege.

Kardag's force (without the little expeditionary force he sends in) consists of 5 goblins, 3 goblin bosses, 2 bugbears, 3 hobgoblins, a hobgoblin caster (devastator?), and himself (Hobgoblin warlord). This would be a very hard fight at this level.

If Kardag gets the armor, he will return to the siege camp to the north of Holfirth and begin the siege.