Current Day: 23rd of Glanix, 2520 PS
## Present Day Mondrall
Following the Alliance's army discovering the devastation of Mondrall during the Dissension, they cleaned up the bodies of the few garrisoned troops that were left in the city's barracks, then left the city as it was.

The city used to have a nice stone brick wall around its exterior, but they were destroyed by Orcish siege engines during the sacking. Near the top of the gently sloped town is a large barracks and training ground. In the middle of the large training yard is a huge funeral pyre now covered with foliage. The skeletons are wearing plate armor with the symbol of Genesis emblazoned on them.
### Ileus's Childhood House
In a small house near the bottom wall of Mondrall, the players can find a very strong illusion spell covering the whole house. The outside of the house appears unchanged, but once the party steps inside, the entire interior is made to look like an idyllic snapshot of before the city was destroyed. Entering the house triggers the programmed illusion. It shows Ileus's parents finishing up preparing a meal, before calling Ileus ("Illy") down from his attic room. He comes down after a moment and the three sit down for a meal. Ileus's mom asks him what he was doing upstairs to which he responds that he was just looking at the stars again. His dad laughs and says that if he keeps using that telescope so much, they're gonna have to save up enough to buy him another one. After eating for a bit longer, Ileus puts down his utensils and asks his parents why they aren't allowed to go beyond the walls. His father responds that the world beyond the walls is wild and dangerous, and that there are monsters that are much more powerful than mere humans like themselves. His mother chimes in that they have everything they could ever need provided for them by Genesis, so why would they risk their lives beyond the walls. Ileus scoffs at this and proclaims that some day he is going to go exploring beyond those walls and is going to slay whatever mighty monsters might stand in his way. His dad reaches over and ruffles his hair and announces "Behold the mighty hero Ileus! Vanquisher of monsters and savior of Mankind!" The illusion then stops for a moment before resetting to its original state and playing out again.

If dispelled, there is a spot near the table where a spot of worn ground indicates that someone has stood there and done so many times.

Also in the back of the first floor after the illusion is gone is a cloth draped over something. The cloth has illusory flowers placed atop it. They are separate from the main programmed illusion. Also atop the cloth is a small note from Ileus to his dead parents. Lifting the cloth reveals the bones of his parents, laid peacefully next to each other.

Upstairs, Ileus has a lot of space paraphernalia, including a telescope and an orrery set to the position of Harmonic Alignment. The ceiling of his room is painted to look like the night sky, and it is actually an accurate model of the stars. In the illusion, there is a poster near the door of a humanoid figure surrounded by wind and storm who looks to be some sort of sorcerer ([[Leiros Erona]]). As Ileus leaves to go downstairs, he stops and looks at the poster, pretends to cast a spell, and then heads downstairs. With the illusion dispelled, the area with the poster is empty, and a DC 15 investigation check reveals that the poster was torn down violently. Near the orrery, in the dispelled house, there is a small metal cylinder with holes in it. When a fire is illuminated inside the metal cylinder, the holes channel light that shines onto the ceiling, highlighting certain stars and constellations. Each highlighted star has an elvish symbol (similar to atomic symbol). There are 9 symbols that get highlighted, "o, e, r, a, ti, l, n, b, i". The stars come from the constellations Mother Gith, Annam Allfather, The Dragon, One-eye, Weavemother, Pylaxes, Apocalypse, The Mariner , and The Northern Blaze. Upon unscrambling the letters and speaking the word aloud "Liberation", another programmed illusion triggers, where a tuning fork rises off the desk and is hit with a striker, making a loud ringing noise. The tuning fork is labelled "2349.32 Hz". It stays hanging in the air to be observed for a minute, before restarting the animation. A tuning fork tuned to this frequency must be created and struck to transport to Spellreach.
## [[Atrisean Dynasty]]
God King Olym is a conniving and scheming man. He only wants to help the party if it gets him more money, power, or reputation. He requires heavy proof of Ileus's plot in order to help the party. Overall he is very skeptical of the party.

God King Olym has a mission to act as a loyalty test for the party to gain his military support. The quest is to go recover a religious artifact that has gone missing. The artifact is a golden idol of [[Lucite]]. It went missing from a wayside temple near the Ichor River. He gives the party a seal that shows that they are agents of the God King himself, so they will have authority.

Quest Overview:
The idol of Lucite was stolen by a Robber Baron from a disgraced Atrisean noble family, the Dastina family. The Robber Baron's name is Djorn Dastina. The Robber Baron received this mission via letter with a seal of the No'zaral government. That letter contained a briefing and a key to the temple, but was instructed to make the robbery look random. This letter and key however actually came from the God King's Head of Cultural Doctrine (Propaganda). This can be found by inspecting the seal. A DC 20 history check reveals that the seal is a fake. If the Robber Baron sees the seal of the God King that the party carries, he mentions how the God King is finally coming to finish off his family and that he won't go down without a fight. If the party brings back the letter, the God King is very pleased and uses it as a Casus Belli to potentially go to war with No'zaral.

The temple is run by an elven woman named Sister Yvette. She shows the party the scene of the crime. The temple itself is fairly small, yet it has golden accents on the stonework and has very detailed stained glass windows. Outside the door are blood stains where the temple's four guards were killed. The temple's doors seem to have been broken in by a large force. Inside, the temple's furniture is strewn about and the shrine at the front has been looted. At the front door, the ground is churned up into thick mud. A DC 10 survival check finds wagon tracks that lead right up to the door. A DC 15 survival check reveals that the door was broken down after the idol was stolen.

Following the wagon tracks away from the chapel, they continue on for a few miles before leading to Djorn Dastina's camp in a small forest clearing. He (Warlord) has two men at arms with him (Gladiators). Djorn has a bag of holding that contains the Lucite idol, 30 platinum, and the mission briefing.

If the party returns the letter, Olym reads it and thanks them for sharing it with him. He immediately says that this likely means war with No'zaral. If the party confronts the God King, he seems disappointed. If Dastina is still dead but there is no note, he announces that he will be sending extra troops to the border to secure it. If Dastina is alive, he still announces that he will be sending troops, but even more to deal with treason against the God King's bloodline (through Lucite).

If the God King is in a good mood after the conclusion of his quest, he works with the party and can share up to 10,000 soldiers.
## [[Valdens]]
The arcane assembly is slightly reluctant to hear the party out at first, since they are majority martial characters. However, they do hear out the party, especially if the Harmonia seal is presented. The party undergoes a hearing led by Calmar Phym, the Octarch of Divination.

Octarchs:
Calmar Phym - Divination
Hal Venner - Evocation
Katerina Espos - Enchantment
Yellen Urt - Necromancy
Leth Redd - Abjuration
Kelnan Springsong - Transmutation
Lora Cloudeyes - Illusion
Mordecai Hiro - Conjuration

While Calmar leads the hearing, the party is questioned by other members of the Assembly, especially the other Octarchs. Katerina is heavily in support of fighting against Ileus. She believes that as Kainomancers, it is their duty to stamp out Anteitic ideologies wherever and whenever they resurface. In contrast, Leth Redd believes that while despite the threat, Spellhaven is an incredibly safe city, and its foremost duty is to protect the Valdensians, all of whom would be safe within Spellhaven's walls. Even when presented with Harmonia's seal, he stands his ground, and Calmar reminds the party that while many members of the Assembly and many citizens of Valdens are devout worshippers of Harmonia, Spellhaven is not bound to the will of the gods, and is legally and officially independent of Harmonia. The mages of the Assembly will mostly respond to logical arguments mixed with some witty remarks, as is the tradition amongst their own meetings.

Leth Redd is also suspicious of the party since they claim to be relic hunters and the Artifact Document for the Spear of the Blood Chief was interfered within the Sanctum Arcana. Yellen Urt brings up that the man named Everett Siluvis is their primary suspect. However, Everett was never found, and Leth claims that the party could be accomplices of his.
## [[No'zaral]]
The Round welcomes the party with much respect for their achievements. They are invited to testify and present their demands within an amphitheater in the Civic Ring. If the party already has helped the Atrisean Dynasty, the Round is very unlikely to help. Otherwise, they respond very well to populist rhetoric and equalitarian arguments. The hearing here is led by Roundman Vance Thilmar, who openly welcomes other Roundmen and observers to join in on the debate.