Current Day: 19th of Glanix, 2520 PS

As Vestryl stands in front of the party, a voice rumbles through the cavern. It calls for those worthy to defeat him in combat and take up the mantle. Vestryl can use the shield stuck to his chest as if he was wielding it normally.
## Present Day Mondrall
Following the Alliance's army discovering the devastation of Mondrall during the Dissension, they cleaned up the bodies of the few garrisoned troops that were left in the city's barracks, then left the city as it was.

The city used to have a nice stone brick wall around its exterior, but they were destroyed by Orcish siege engines during the sacking. Near the top of the gently sloped town is a large barracks and training ground. In the middle of the large training yard is a huge funeral pyre now covered with foliage. The skeletons are wearing plate armor with the symbol of Genesis emblazoned on them.
### Ileus's Childhood House
In a small house near the bottom wall of Mondrall, the players can find a very strong illusion spell covering the whole house. The outside of the house appears unchanged, but once the party steps inside, the entire interior is made to look like an idyllic snapshot of before the city was destroyed. Entering the house triggers the programmed illusion. It shows Ileus's parents finishing up preparing a meal, before calling Ileus ("Illy") down from his attic room. He comes down after a moment and the three sit down for a meal. Ileus's mom asks him what he was doing upstairs to which he responds that he was just looking at the stars again. His dad laughs and says that if he keeps using that telescope so much, they're gonna have to save up enough to buy him another one. After eating for a bit longer, Ileus puts down his utensils and asks his parents why they aren't allowed to go beyond the walls. His father responds that the world beyond the walls is wild and dangerous, and that there are monsters that are much more powerful than mere humans like themselves. His mother chimes in that they have everything they could ever need provided for them by Genesis, so why would they risk their lives beyond the walls. Ileus scoffs at this and proclaims that some day he is going to go exploring beyond those walls and is going to slay whatever mighty monsters might stand in his way. His dad reaches over and ruffles his hair and announces "Behold the mighty hero Ileus! Vanquisher of monsters and savior of Mankind!" The illusion then stops for a moment before resetting to its original state and playing out again.

If dispelled, there is a spot near the table where a spot of worn ground indicates that someone has stood there and done so many times.

Upstairs, Ileus has a lot of space paraphernalia, including a telescope and an orrery set to the position of Harmonic Alignment. The ceiling of his room is painted to look like the night sky, and it is actually an accurate model of the stars. In the illusion, there is a poster near the door of a humanoid figure surrounded by wind and storm who looks to be some sort of sorcerer. As Ileus leaves to go downstairs, he stops and looks at the poster, pretends to cast a spell, and then heads downstairs. With the illusion dispelled, the area with the poster is empty, and a DC 15 investigation check reveals that the poster was torn down violently. Near the orrery, in the dispelled house, there is a small metal cylinder with holes in it. When a fire is illuminated inside the metal cylinder, the holes channel light that shines onto the ceiling, highlighting certain stars and constellations. Each highlighted star has an elvish symbol (similar to atomic symbol). There are 9 symbols that get highlighted, "o, e, r, a, ti, l, n, b, i". The stars come from the constellations Mother Gith, Annam Allfather, The Dragon, One-eye, Weavemother, Pylaxes, Apocalypse, The Mariner , and The Northern Blaze. Upon unscrambling the letters and speaking the word aloud "Liberation", another programmed illusion triggers, where a tuning fork rises off the desk and is hit with a striker, making a loud ringing noise. The tuning fork is labelled "2349.32 Hz". It stays hanging in the air to be observed for a minute, before restarting the animation. A tuning fork tuned to this frequency must be created and struck to transport to Spellreach.
## Falstor
In Ophal's throne room, the teenage Jeffery announces [[King Ophal]]'s titles. 

King Ophal wants to help the party, especially since he knows Astarius. He says that he could spare 2,000 soldiers to the party if they needed it. He also says that he could get a lot more if the party could bring proof of Ileus's impending doom. He believes the party but the rest of his council and generals do not, so his hands are somewhat tied. The army that King Ophal gives to the party is led by a dwarf named Ogden Strongarm. He is a heavy-set dwarf with a clearly fake eye that rolls around in its socket sometimes.
## Rodigia
The Mountain King [[Rodigia|Strullar Anling]] is extremely reluctant to give any military aid to the party. While the Larenthian Army has retreated for now, the Larenthian government has not made any motion towards establishing a truce or peace treaty. The Mountain King is very worried about another surprise attack from the Larenthian Alliance. What he needs most for convincing is a guarantee that his country will be safe. He won't state this need outright but it is what's most important to him.

The area around Mount Thogrin is still devastated from the siege. Much of the grass is trampled and most of the surrounding forests are destroyed. Most of the road up towards Rhugnurt is cleared, but there are still a few effigies left just for good measure. Inside the walls, the city appears to have sustained damage from trebuchet and spell weaponry, but the Giantkind architecture seems to have withheld fairly well, and is already in the process of being repaired by skilled craftsmen.
## Atrisean Dynasty
God King Olym is a conniving and scheming man. He only wants to help the party if it gets him more money, power, or reputation. He requires heavy proof of Ileus's plot in order to help the party. Overall he is very skeptical of the party.

God King Olym has a mission to act as a loyal