Day: 21st of Otun, 2519 PS

The Siege
The siege of Rhugnurt has been ongoing for about a tenday and a half. The Larenthian forces remain camped at the bottom of Mount Thogrin. Attempts to attack the city via the Winding Road have been completely unsuccessful, as it takes only a handful of giants to block the road. Every day, boulders are hurled off the top of Mount Thogrin and crash down onto the Larenthian Camp. Morale is running thin.

Nearby, Ileus searches almost 24/7 for Epius's Workshop. He has narrowed his search down to the nearby volcano, Mount Smedr. The entrance to the workshop however has continuously eluded him.

This is due to the fact that the Workshop is not magically protected at all, so as not to be detected by a detect magic spell. There are 2 current ways into the workshop. The normal entrance was sealed off long ago and has been covered in volcanic ash for ages now. A very good investigation or nature check could find signs of an entrance being here. The other entrance is inside the mouth of the volcano, where an old exhaust duct exits. From the top ring of the volcano to the base of the mouth is about 500 feet. The entirety of the mouth is covered in bubbling lava, except for the small ventilation tube, which is about 3 feet in diameter. The tube is within jumping range of the lip of the volcano mouth, or one could try to traverse the lava.

Knoglir, the All-Knowing:
Deep beneath a mountain near Mount Smedr, an ancient emerald dragon named Knoglir, the All-Knowing. He hoards knowledge rather than treasure. He has been alive since before the Dissension, staying alive by mostly hiding beneath an Illusion in his mountain lair. However, he was friends with Epius the Archmage of Transmutation. Epius worked in the forge of Mount Smedr for a bit, and Knoglir became friends with him during that time. Knoglir learned a lot from Epius, keeping it all safe in his perfect memory. After the scourge, Knoglir made a deal with Uvira to keep an eye on Epius's forge. In his free time, Knoglir also began collecting knowledge on everything about the Dissension that he had not learned from Epius, this included information on the locations of the Relics of Dissension.

In the modern day, he knows the locations of all of the Relics or at least where the plot hook for each one is. He can be reasoned with by the party to get some of his knowledge.

Traveling back to Rodigia:
Near the top of the mountain pass on the Rodigian border, the party once again passes the cave mouth where the sound of mining can be heard. Unlike last time, it sounds like there are many people now mining in the cave. If the party investigates, they find many stone giants inside mining away at harmonium crystals. Harmonium is used across the world in magic item crafting and spellcasting. It can be used as a substitute for material components, and makes enchanting magic items take less time. The giants are more defensive this time, as the crystals are being used in the fight against Larenthia.