- Armor of Valos: Located in the Solar Nexus of the Helvalic People. This relic was acquired by the Helvalic People during their servitude of Valos during the Great Dissension. This armor is +1 half-plate armor. In addition to the +1, once per short rest, this armor can cast the scorching ray spell at 4th level originating from itself.
- Spear of the Blood Chief: Gets stronger the more enemies it kills. Also sentient. The Spear of the Blood Chief is located in The Gaping Maw of the Abyss. It is held in the Palace of Berzir the Pact Breaker (Titivilus Stat Block) who broke his pact with his devil master to serve Demogorgon instead. The palace is known as the Palace of Betrayal. Berzir acquired the spear as a reward from Demogorgon, who had stolen it from The Blood Chief just after the Scourge, when the gods were at their weakest. Mechanically, the spear starts out as a normal +1 1d6 spear. After three hits with it, it transforms into a +1 1d8 spear. After three more hits, it transforms into a +2 1d8 spear, and after that a +2 1d10 spear, which must be wielded with two hands. If the wielder of the spear forfeits their soul to the Blood Chief through the spear, the spear becomes a +3 1d12 spear. After one turn with no hits, the spear shrinks one size.
- The Amulet of Greater Health is an amulet of health that sets the wearer's constitution to 23. After the first long rest while wearing this amulet, the wearer's hit points are affected. This item is located in the ruins of the tower of Esemaryl in the Fields of Elysium.
- !!!WIP!!! The Shield of Ozewyn: This is a +3 magical shield. When found it has 6 charges and it regains 1d4+2 charges every dawn. When hit with an attack, the wielder can use their reaction to expend a charge and instead only take half the damage and store the other half in the shield. Once an attack is stored in the shield, it can't store more, and must be used to make its ranged attack. As a bonus action, the wielder can release a blast that deals the stored damage in force damage. The target of the attack must succeed on a dexterity saving throw or take the full force damage and be pushed 10 feet back. If the target succeeds the saving throw they take half damage and are not push back. The DC for the saving throw is 10 + the wielder's main attack bonus. The shockwave only targets one creature.
- Hammer of Epius: This hammer is located in an ancient giantkin workshop in Rodigia. This is a +2 warhammer. Additionally, on a hit, the target's joints start to become stone and its movement speed is halved until the end of its next turn. If the hit is a critical hit, the target is subjected to the flesh to stone spell (DC 15). Constructs are immune to the additional effects of this weapon.
- Robe of the Dead: This robe is located in Invexeor's Tower in Hades. Invexeor is still alive through powerful necromantic magic, but he is indifferent to the party's attempts to obtain the Robe of the Dead. He actually warns the party against using it, as it brings nothing but despair, but he won't actually do anything to stop them. A portal to Invexeor's Tower is located on a mysterious death island in the Wildlands. The Robe of the Dead is a magical robe that when worn, gives the wearer resistance to necrotic damage and a +1 to armor class. This robe also allows the wearer to cast the spell Create Undead at a 6th level once per dawn.