21st of Florum, 2519 PS

"We begin our adventure in the late spring bloom of the month of Florum. All sorts of creatures scurry throughout the Shadowwood Forest searching for food newly sprouted after the rains of the previous month. A sweet-smelling breeze blows softly through luscious, green trees that tower over the forest floor. The trading town of Holfirth sits deep within Shadowwood Forest, profiting off of the products of the plentiful creatures that inhabit the woods. Under the rule of Lord Pixton, life is good in the province. Market squares in the town of Holfirth are alive with the hustle and bustle of all manner of folks trading pelts, horns, antlers, venom, and much more. About two days southwest of the town of Holfirth lies the small village of Dire Wolf Grotto. Even thicker woods crowd around a handful of buildings huddled together in a small clearing. At the center of the village is the Pelt Market. Carts haul shipments of wolf pelts to and fro, sending them out towards Holfirth to be sold in the markets there. A small troop of local guards watch over people as they go about their days. Mayor Graumil stands out front of the Town Hall watching the local hubbub. Traders and citizens barter for the pelts that hang in droves in the town square. These pelts come from the ever-howling Dire Wolves that are kept in the Wolf Pens just off the main drag. Their howls are omnipresent in the town, never stopping even during the brightest hour of the noon sun. Just across the street from the Wolf Pens, a squat, blue-wood sided building hides on the tree line. A sign hangs out front that reads 'The Lupine Archives'. A few small paned windows dot the front and sides of the one-story wooden building. It is here that our epic story begins."

Helia sits at a table pouring over dusty tomes of archaic methods of arcane spellcasting. At the next table over, Leche's Character sits reading epic tales of heroes of the region. In the corner, a small hooded figure darts from bookshelf to bookshelf investigating different books. If any roleplay happens, good. If not, after a few minutes a scream is heard in the distance outside. The wolves start to yip excitedly. When the characters rush outside, Aenaeris is sitting outside and follows. Once outside, the clanging of metal and more screams can be heard from the southeast of town. A raid has begun. The raiding party consists of around 10 goblins, 4 hobgoblins, and 1 hobgoblin captain.